Title: DENTAL RECORDS AND BILLING SYSTEM

Background of the Study
INTRODUCTION
  Looking back on the past generation, man’s work was too slow that caused too much time and effort in able to finish their work but nowadays it is easier, faster and more convenient because of technology. As we are living in a fast- paced generation, we must learn to cope–up to become more competitive in life in the field of technology. And because of technology, many of us have shared their skills and knowledge to improve the technology that we are using today. Most of the organizations today are using computerized system in doing their tasks compared to the past generation they did it manually.
  Computers are widely used in day to day activities. Computerized is a control system that manages process in industrial workplace. It reduced human errors and processing time, thus it can boost productivity and resulted into high quality of product and services produce. In information System, computerization is concerned about interrelating different but interdependent transactions. This can result in a system with well-integrated processes that can perform much faster and more accurate than a manual system. Electronic dental records have great potential to improve record keeping and billing performance. For a dental billing and recording system, which is complex, repetitive, and has voluminous data, computerization is recommended. Computerization overcomes many of the defects in the manual system which is fast and gives control on the system. Computerization helps in decision making. The output formats can be tailored to suit retrieval of information that is necessary for decision making. Dental clinics face the challenge of maintaining aging billing and recording systems while collecting payments from patients for services rendered. As service districts have grown in size and complexity simple systems have become outdated and difficult to use. Dental Service agreements between districts have become a common practice and require tracking to ensure accuracy. Patient’s information must be secured, but accessible for time and attendances as well as payments, patient information, and work completed. Dental billing and recording software has evolved from separate systems that tracked internal activities in dependently from patient’s information into the most advance software systems that will track patient’s information in one database.
  Due to manual process, some significant errors cannot be avoided. Patients Dental Record and Billing System is a kind of system that will greatly improve the productivity of medical personnel. It provides guidance and support decision to prevent errors and effectiveness of services. This system can also provide easy data retrieval, record keeping, a quarterly and annual graphical report of health record and Income report that is needed for decision making and a real time records for the management.

SIGNIFICANT OF THE STUDY
  Healthcare relate especially hospitals and even clinics. Upgrading from manual system to automated not only lessen paper consumption but also gives assurance of the safety of information that will be kept properly and well-organized. A dental clinic is primarily devoted to diagnosis and care of patients. The degree to which the patients are satisfied with the care received is relative not only to the dentist expertise in their fields but also to the quality of the clinic management.
This study was made to make the work easier, faster and more accurate in terms of patient information, billing and recording system. The proposed system was developed and implemented to lessen the work of management of the organization. It provides more accurate and reliable records of billing while using this proposed system, and as researcher they are able to find more ways of improving every one’s work. The researcher will study and develop the billing and recording system implementation that wills to enforce improvement in the company performance and business process.
  Billing and Recording System is a combination of software and hardware that keep patients information’s, groups this information for specific accounts of patients, produce invoices, create reports for management, and records payments made to patient’s accounts.

PROBLEMS
  1. Difficult to access the latest information of patient
    -The doctor and assistant face the problem to access the latest information of their patient since their information are write in card and do not have a special attribute to search their information more easy and faster.
  
  2. Problem updating data
    -Besides that, the doctor also face a problem to updating their patient data especially for their patient treatment information.
    -The treatment for each patient must be different
  
  3. Inconvenience bill processing
    -The Dental management system has manual and time consumed billing process. 

OBJECTIVES
  1. Facilitate the search for patient information
    - This system may be help the doctor and their assistants to search for their patient information easily and faster than before by enter their Idpatient.
  
  2. Facilitate updating of patient data 
    - This system also will facilitate the doctor there assistants to update their patient data especially for their patient treatment information.
  
  3.Facilitate Automated billing system 


SCOPE
  1. Store all record of all patients.
  2. Hold all confidential data of the patient’s past diagnoses.
  3. Improve record and billing legibility.
  4. Produce patient’s history, health records daily log, billing and inventory reports.
